---
title: "Backup Codes"
description: ""
lead: ""
date: 2020-10-06T08:49:15+00:00
lastmod: 2020-10-06T08:49:15+00:00
draft: false
images: []
weight: 890
---

XSense IdP server uses our novel, post-quantum cryptography technique ‘Non-Linear Secret Shares’ (NLSS) for generating the back up codes. These backup codes are a set of one-time-use codes generated XSense Idp portal and provides the user a backup or alternative method for authentication. These codes serve as a safety net when a user cannot access their primary authentication method, such as a mobile app, or biometric authentication method.

* Typically, the XSense IdP portal generates these backup codes during the user onboarding process.

* Users are advised to keep their backup codes in a secure location. Losing these codes could result in being locked out of an account because they act as an alternate authentication method. Each code is typically single-use, and after it's used, it becomes invalid.

* XSense IdP allow the admin to regenerate a new set of backup codes for the users if they have used or lost their existing ones.

**Expiry Time (days)**: After generating the backup code, administrators have the option to define the duration, in days, for which these backup codes will remain valid before they expire. By default, the expiration period is set to 30 days. However, administrators can tailor this time frame to align with the specific needs of the organization.

**Remainder Time (days)**: The XSense IdP portal immediately notifies users when their backup codes are about to expire after the backup codes have been generated. These notifications are sent out by default **six** days before the backup codes are scheduled to expire. However, administrators are authorised to modify this notification time to suit the particular needs of the organisation.

**No. of codes**: By default, the XSense IdP portal generates six backup codes. However, administrators have the option to customize the number of backup codes generated by the XSense IdP according to their organization preferences.
